=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-08-07
company: Tesla
event: Funding secured tweet
title: Tesla shares soar after Elon Musk floats plan to take company private
text:
Elon Musk has launched a campaign to take Tesla private on a day that included several provocative tweets, a suspension (and resumption) of trading in the company’s shares, reports of a significant Saudi investment, a surge in stock price, and an evocative, Musk-tinged appeal to the Tesla faithful: “The future is very bright and we’ll keep fighting to achieve our mission.”

The ride started with Tesla’s stock rising more than 7% after Musk tweeted he was “considering taking Tesla private” and had funding in place to do so at a price of $420 (£325) per share. Shortly afterwards, Tesla published a blogpost written by Musk entitled ‘Taking Tesla private’ that had been sent to all employees.
The tweet appeared to be triggered by a report in the Financial Times that Saudi Arabia has built up a stake in Tesla worth up to $2.9bn.

At $420 a share, Tesla would have an enterprise value of about $82bn including debt, well above its stock market value, which reached $63.8bn on Tuesday. Shares closed up 11% at $378. To take Tesla private, Musk would have to pull off the largest leveraged buyout in history, surpassing Texas electric utility TXU’s in 2007. Analysts say Tesla doesn’t fit the typical profile of a company that can raise tens of billions of dollars of debt to fund such a deal.

In a follow up tweet, Musk wrote: “I don’t have a controlling vote now and wouldn’t expect any shareholder to have one if we go private. I won’t be selling in either scenario.”

In the letter sent out to Tesla employees, Musk did not say that Tesla had secured funding. He wrote instead that “a final decision has not yet been made, but the reason for doing this is all about creating the environment for Tesla to operate best”.

Musk described the “wild swings” in Tesla’s stock price as a “major distraction” and said the quarterly earnings cycle puts “enormous pressure on Tesla to make decisions that may be right for a given quarter, but not necessarily right for the long-term”.
But Musk rejected the interpretation that he was simply seeking greater wealth or control of the company than the 20% he already owns. He wrote: “Basically, I’m trying to accomplish an outcome where Tesla can operate at its best, free from as much distraction and short-term thinking as possible.”

Saudi Arabia’s public investment fund (PIF), which invests its vast oil wealth, has quietly built up a stake of between 3% and 5% in the company, according to the FT. The investment would not have emerged until now because stakes of less than 5% do not need to be disclosed to the stock market.

PIF, which manages more than $250bn in assets, reportedly made an overture to Musk earlier this year, offering to invest money in the company in return for new shares.
Tesla ignored the approach, prompting PIF to begin acquiring shares in the company through stock markets, with the assistance of JP Morgan.

Analyst Gene Munster, a managing partner at venture capital firm Loup Ventures, told Bloomberg: “Elon Musk does not want to run public companies. His missions are big and make it difficult to accommodate investors’ quarterly expectations. Our guess is there is a one-in-three chance he can actually pull this off.”

No Wall Street bank contacted by CNBC said it was aware of any transaction or had any knowledge of commitment to funding a leveraged buyout of Tesla.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) also declined to comment on the matter.

The confusion increased speculation that Musk was engaged in a stunt – which could backfire if Musk is found to have violated fiduciary directives governing how senior executives at publicly-held companies are permitted to release information that could affect a firm’s stock price.

In 2013, the SEC ruled that companies are allowed to use social media outlets like Facebook and Twitter to announce news. But many thought Musk could be making a pun by twice tweeting “420” – an abbreviation of 4/20, code for the consumption of cannabis.

Musk’s fondness for making statements via Twitter has backfired in the past. He attracted furious criticism after baselessly calling a British diver who helped rescue the boys trapped in a flooded cave in Thailand a “pedo”. Tesla’s share price dropped and Musk was forced to apologise.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-17-08
company: Tesla
event: SEC investigation announced
title: ‘He’s not unlike the president’: How Elon Musk shapes Tesla coverage
text:
Tesla chief executive Elon Musk over the past week has faced intensifying questions from federal investigators over his desire to take the carmaker private, company shareholders are lobbing legal bombs, and — whoa, look over there!

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-09-27
company: Tesla
event: Joe Rogan podcast
title: Tesla shares crash after Elon Musk smokes joint on live web show
text:
Tesla shares crashed 6% on Friday as two of its senior executives quit, just hours after the electric carmaker’s chief executive Elon Musk sparked concern by smoking marijuana on a live web show.

The company’s head of accounting, Dave Morton, and head of human resources, Gaby Toledano, said they were leaving the company, which has been placed at the centre of a string of controversies by its maverick CEO.

Morton, who joined the company just one month ago, said he was leaving because “the level of public attention placed on the company, as well as the pace within the company, have exceeded my expectations”.

“This caused me to reconsider my future. I want to be clear that I believe strongly in Tesla, its mission and its future prospects, and I have no disagreements with Tesla’s leadership or its financial reporting.”

Morton joined the company one day before Musk tweeted that he was considering taking the company private with “funding secured”. The plan was abandoned 17 days later, but not after drawing a subpoena from the Securities and Exchange Commission and a series of lawsuits alleging market manipulation.

Toledano, who has been on leave of absence from the company, told Bloomberg she would not be returning to the firm.

The pair quit a day after Musk provoked fresh concern after smoking marijuana on a live web show with US comedian Joe Rogan.

Musk, 47, spent two-and-half hours on the streamed podcast late on Thursday discussing everything from artificial intelligence and its impact on humankind to flame throwers and social media.

Taking a puff from a joint – which Rogan said was a blend of tobacco and marijuana and is legal in California – Musk said he “almost never” smoked. “I’m not a regular smoker of weed,” Musk said. “I don’t actually notice any effect … I don’t find that it is very good for productivity.”

Musk stunned investors last month with tweets saying he had funding to take the company private for $420 (£323) a share. He then backed off from his plan saying Tesla was better off as a public company.

Asked about the wisdom of smoking marijuana while he is under investigation by the SEC for the “take private” tweet, Musk told the Guardian by email: “Guardian is the most insufferable newspaper on planet Earth”.

In a subsequent email in response to a question about whether Tesla drug-tests employees, Musk said: “Our policy allows trace amounts of THC [an ingredient of cannabis] during work times, provided they are below the safety limit (much like a minimum alcohol level).”

Musk did not immediately respond to additional questions about his behaviour or comments on the podcast.

Earlier this week Musk escalated his baseless attacks against the British diver Vernon Unsworth, claiming that the man who helped rescue children from a cave in Thailand was a “child rapist” in an email to a reporter. Neither Tesla nor Musk have commented on the Buzzfeed report.

Musk first called the diver Unsworth a “pedo” in a July tweet – an unfounded claim against a man who was part of the international team that freed 12 young footballers and their coach from the Tham Luang cave complex. Musk, who had unsuccessfully attempted to assist the rescue mission, eventually apologised to Unsworth.

Musk’s behaviour has raised concerns about his leadership and several Wall Street analysts have called for the company to appoint a strong deputy to prop up Tesla’s operations and standing with investors.

“We have been calling for a Co-CEO or COO to assist to codifying the leadership structure and in so doing, the culture at Tesla,” said James Albertine, an analyst at brokerage Consumer Edge. “We think this is further evidence that the time is now for management and the board to address these issues.”

Many senior executives have quit Tesla recently. In the first three months of the year, the company lost Morton’s predecessor, Eric Branderiz and Susan Repo, who was treasurer and vice president of finance. Chief financial officer Deepak Ahuja retired in 2015, but returned in 2017 after his successor, Jason Wheeler, quit after 15 months.

On Friday afternoon, Musk told Tesla employees to ignore what he called “a lot of fuss and noise in the media” in an all-staff email published on the company blog. Musk also announced a number of internal promotions to fill vacant executive positions, including the elevation of Jerome Guillen to the newly created role of president of automotive operations.

Many of Musk’s Twitter followers questioned if smoking marijuana was against the company’s policy, while others mocked the CEO’s initial $420 bid, a number that has become code for marijuana.

“Elon getting high on weed and whiskey is the first reason to go long on $TSLA in a while. He needs to relax a bit,” one Twitter user said.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-10-04
company: Tesla
event: SEC lawsuit filed
title: Elon Musk and Tesla to pay $40m to settle SEC case over tweets
text:
Musk will step down as Tesla chair but stay as CEO
Billionaire sent tweet about taking company private
Elon Musk is to step down as chair of Tesla for three years and pay a fine after reaching a deal with the US financial regulator over tweets he made about taking the firm into private ownership.

Under the settlement Musk would remain as chief executive but must leave his other post within 45 days. Both he and the company will each pay a $20m (£15.3m) fine.

The entrepreneur has overseen two tumultuous months for the car company that battered Tesla’s share price and Musk’s reputation. Last Friday Tesla’s share price was down close to 14% as investors lost confidence.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed a suit in New York accusing Musk of fraud last week, alleging that the tweets about financing for a go-private plan he abandoned just weeks later had no basis in fact, and said the market chaos that ensued hurt investors.

In his tweet in August he said he was considering taking Tesla off the stock market and into private ownership and had “funding secured” for the proposal, which would value Tesla at $420 a share.

Under the terms of the deal, Musk would also have to comply with the company’s communications procedures when tweeting about the firm.

The settlement reached on Saturday does not go as far as the regulator initially demanded when it said that Musk should be barred from running Tesla, a sanction that many investors said would be disastrous for the loss-making electric carmaker.

The SEC charged Tesla with failing to have required disclosure controls and procedures for Musk’s tweets. The SEC said the company had no way to determine if his tweets contained complete and accurate information.

Neither Musk nor Tesla admitted or denied the SEC’s findings as part of the settlement. Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment and Musk could not immediately be reached for comment.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2019-02-19
company: Tesla
event: SEC settlement
title: Tesla's Musk ordered to respond to SEC contempt motion by March 11
text:
NEW YORK, A federal judge on Tuesday ordered Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk to explain by March 11 why he should not be held in contempt for violating a settlement agreement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in Manhattan issued her order one day after the SEC asked that Musk be held in contempt over tweets he made on Feb. 19 concerning Tesla's 2019 production outlook.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2019-04-11
event: Autonomy Day
title: Tesla Autonomy Investor Day 2019: 7 Notable Highlights 
text:
Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA) Autonomy Investor Day 2019 was designed to kick off today at 11 a.m., sharing information on the company’s self-driving vehicle technology to investors.
Source: Tesla

The Tesla Autonomy Investor Day 2019 took place at the company’s headquarters in Palo Alto, California and Autopilot was dicussed.
“Tesla is making significant progress in the development of its autonomous driving software and hardware, including our FSD computer, which is currently in production and which will enable full-self driving via future over-the-air software updates,” the company said when it announced the event.
Those who attended received Tesla badges with sequential numbers, likely designed for test rides of the company’s full self-driving functionality.
CEO Elon Musk and Pete Bannon, vice president of Autopilot engineering, took the stage. Bannon discussed the new Tesla chip for the Autopilot software.
He added that safety is of the utmost importance for the company.  “Any part of this could fail and the car will keep driving,” Musk added. “The probability of this computer failing is substantially lower than someone losing consciousness.”
The software can authenticate that any code it runs has been authenticated by the company as genuine, per Bannon.
The new Tesla chip has neural network actuators that can process 2100 frames per second of incoming imagery from cars with constantly running cameras, Bannon said. This amounts to about 2.5 billion pixels per second.

TSLA stock fell 3.9% on Monday, then gained 0.2% after hours.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2019-10-23
company: Tesla
event: Q3 profit surprise
title: Tesla rebounds from rocky start to year with surprise profit of $143m
text:
Tesla rebounds from rocky start to year with surprise profit of $143m
This article is more than 6 years old

Results come after Elon Musk’s electric car company lost $1.1bn during the first half of 2018

Tesla rebounded from a rocky start to the year when it reported a surprise third-quarter profit of $143m on Wednesday, sending its stock price soaring more than 17% in after-hours trading.

The electric automobile company’s revenues of $6.3bn narrowly missed analyst expectations, but adjusted earnings per share of $1.86 far exceeded expectations that the company would continue losing money.

The company attributed the turnaround to cost control efforts, noting that “operating expenses are at the lowest level since Model 3 production started”. It also claimed to have “dramatically improved the pace of execution and capital efficiency of new production lines”.

“Super proud of Tesla team for great execution & support of Tesla customers greatly appreciated!!” tweeted the chief executive, Elon Musk, about the results.

The positive results came after Tesla lost $1.1bn during the first half of the year. That had caused many investors to lose faith in the company even as it boosted sales of its vehicles.

Doubts about Tesla forced its stock to fall by 23% so far this year, while the bellwether Standard & Poor’s 500 index has climbed 20% so far. But Tesla’s shares recovered a big chunk of those losses after its third-quarter numbers came out. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had projected Tesla would lose about $253m during the third quarter.

Instead, Tesla delivered a “jaw dropper”, said the Wedbush Securities analyst Daniel Ives. “The street wanted profitability and Tesla delivered in big fashion.”

“We are highly focused on decisions that really make a material difference to the company, such as opening Gigafactories on other continents,” Musk said on an unusually restrained conference call with investors.

The billionaire’s erratic behavior, including his infamous tweet that he planned to take the company private and baseless allegations of pedophilia against a volunteer rescue worker, have long dogged the company and resulted in investigations and fines.

Development of the company’s new factory in Shanghai is ahead of schedule, Musk boasted, and trial production has already begun. He said the company will announce the location for a factory in Europe before the end of the year.

Musk also advanced the timeline for production of the Model Y, a crossover SUV that was first unveiled in March, to summer 2020.

Despite the strong quarterly performance, Tesla will almost certainly post yet another annual loss this year, just as it has done every year since its initial public offering in 2010. Since then, Tesla has amassed more than $5.5bn in losses.

More financial potholes could still be looming on the road ahead as Tesla faces increasing competition, with more automakers rolling out their own electric vehicles to cater to the growing number of consumers looking for alternatives for fuel-burning vehicles. Many of those automakers will be able to take advantage of alluring tax incentives that are now being phased out for Tesla because of its head start in the field.

“We have passed peak Tesla, it has already seen its best days,” asserted David Kudla, the chief investment strategist for Mainstay Capital Management, a financial advisory firm that focuses on the auto industry.

Nicholas Hyett, an equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, also warned of potential challenges to future demand. “The price of Teslas may be lower than in the past, but they’re still a big ticket, comparatively premium product,” he said. “That’s not a category that holds up well in a downturn – and the economic landscape is hardly rosy.”

Agencies contributed reporting

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-01-29
company: Tesla
event: Q4 earnings beat
title: Tesla (TSLA) releases Q4 earnings: beats on revenue and earnings
text:
Tesla has released its financial results and shareholders letter for the fourth quarter of 2019 after market close today.

We are updating this post with all the details from the financial results, shareholders letter, and the conference call later tonight.

As we reported in our Q4 earnings preview post yesterday, Wall Street was expecting revenue of about $7.047 billion for the quarter and a gain of $1.62 per share.

Expectations were high this quarter after Tesla destroyed earnings expectations with surprisingly high profits last quarter.

Today, Tesla announced that it made $7.384 billion in revenue and it reported surprising profits of $2.14 per share (Non-GAAP) in Q4 2019 – over expectations for both revenue and earnings.

The automaker continues to improve its financial position with strong results and increased its cash position by almost $1 billion to now $6.3 billion.

Tesla Energy, the company’s energy production and storage business, has also greatly improved during the last quarter.

They have deployed 530 MWh of energy storage, including the first Megapacks, Tesla’s new utility-size energy storage product, and 54 MW of solar power.

Tesla’s stock price jump over 6% in aftermarket trading after the earnings result came out. TSLA is now trading at a new all-time high over $600 per share.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-02-03
company: Tesla
event: Stock crosses $900
title: Tesla shares hit $900
text:
Shares of Tesla Inc surged 15 percent on Tuesday to hit the $900 mark, extending a stunning rally that has more than doubled the company’s market value since the start of the year as more investors bet on Chief Executive Elon Musk’s vision.

The latest surge was partly fuelled by Panasonic Corp saying on Monday that its automotive battery venture with the United States-based Tesla was in the black for the first time.

Some analysts have also attributed the rally to investors betting Tesla would go down in price then having to buy more shares to cover those bets as the stock’s value rose instead – so-called “short covering”.

Shares of heavily shorted companies can at times get pushed higher as traders rush to buy stock to cover their short bets, triggering what is known as a “short squeeze”.

Panasonic shares closed up 10 percent, with those of Tesla’s Asian suppliers LG Chem Ltd, based in South Korea, and CATL, based in China, also closing higher.

“Investors are now starting to believe that Tesla can make mass-volume electric vehicles [EVs], and automakers, battery makers and suppliers can make money from EVs,” said analyst Cho Hyun-ryul of Samsung Securities.

Tesla last week reported strong vehicle delivery numbers and a second consecutive quarterly profit. The company also said it would comfortably make more than half a million vehicles this year.

Billionaire investor Ron Baron, whose firm holds a nearly one percent stake in Tesla, says he will not be selling a single Tesla share, adding he believes the carmaker could hit $1 trillion in revenue in 10 years.

Tesla reported revenue of $24.6bn in 2019.

Panasonic also said it was expanding production to keep pace with demand from Tesla, indicating the company was finally getting ahead of battery production bottlenecks it flagged last April. The daily percentage gain was the stock’s biggest in about four years.

Shares rose 10 percent in LG Chem and CATL, both of which signed battery-making deals with Tesla last week, ending the automaker’s exclusive partnership with Panasonic.

Shares of fellow EV battery makers SK Innovation Co Ltd and Samsung SDI Co Ltd rose 4.5 percent and 9 percent, respectively.

POSCO Chemical Co Ltd, which recently signed a $1.6bn deal to supply battery-making materials to LG Chem, rose 4.6 percent.
EV hope

Panasonic said on Monday that it expects to stabilise profit at Tesla’s Gigafactory by next year, and that there is a lot of room to improve production efficiency for what is an EV’s most expensive component, accounting for about a third of total cost.

The firm is also gearing up to mitigate the loss of the exclusive Tesla partnership by setting up a joint venture with Toyota Motor Corp to develop a type of EV battery that the pair plan to sell to any automaker.

“When you look back, say two to three years ago, there were doubts about whether the EV era would arrive,” said analyst Kang Dong-jin at Hyundai Motor Investment and Securities in Seoul.

“But now there is more viability about the sector thanks to Tesla’s strong sales and Europe’s tougher emissions regulations,” he said.

The European Union introduced tighter emission rules after Volkswagen AG said it had cheated diesel pollution tests. The United Kingdom on Tuesday will announce a ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel cars from 2035 – five years earlier than previously planned.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-02-05
company: Tesla
event: Stock drops 17%
title: Tesla shares plunge 17%, their worst one day drop in eight years
text:
Investors who like that sensation of their stomach dropping away don’t need to board a roller coaster. They can just buy Tesla shares.

In December, the electric car maker closed at $414.70. By the end of yesterday, the stock was trading at $968.99, or up 114% for the year. Then today, shares plunged more than 17% to $734.70, their worst one-day drop since January 13, 2012, when the share price fell by 19.3%.

As of today’s close, Tesla ranks as the world’s Number 2 automaker by market cap. (Six months ago, it would have been fifth.) And out of a group of automakers, including VW, GM, Ford, Fiat Chrysler, Honda, Daimler, and BMW, Tesla had the lowest annual revenue for the more recently reported full year.

Most analysts are also cautious about the company. Out of 38 analyst ratings obtained from Bloomberg, 16 were negative, 16 neutral, and only 7 were classified as positive.

The company’s evangelists have had a very good 2020 thus far to be sure. But a developing competitive landscape—well-funded startups like Rivian and virtually every big car maker, including GM, Ford, and Volkswagen, are working on EV models—have naysayers believing there is little to no chance the company will earn enough to justify its sky-high share price, which on Tuesday was more than six times bigger than Toyota’s, the largest car maker in the world.
Tesla: present and future

While Tesla is considered an EV pioneer, it’s also an equities heavyweight. The company currently represents 1.1% of the entire value of the Nasdaq Composite Index, with only 11 companies—including Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook, and Intel—having a bigger influence. Its market cap is certainly outsized when compared to other automakers on such metrics as revenue and net income, as the chart below shows.

The bulls, however, believe it’s all about what’s to come. “We believe EV demand is inflecting globally and Tesla is leading the charge,” Dan Ives, managing director of equity research at Wedbush Securities, told Fortune in an email exchange. “The stock is reflecting the good news and much more in the future. Now it’s about continued execution for Musk and company.”

Still, the climb of share prices over the last six months, at least before today, has been fearsome.

“Doubts about Tesla have been put to rest,” David Russell, vice president of market intelligence at TradeStation, wrote in a note to Fortune. “People who worried Elon Musk couldn’t deliver have been proven wrong and now they’re frantically playing catch-up. People should never forget that the stock market is forward looking. Investors price in years of growth before it actually takes place. Tesla moved like this back in 2013 and 2014, followed by half a decade of consolidation. Now it may be doing something similar.”
Forecasting the road ahead

Part of the market’s reaction can also be explained by the tension between the true believers—who think that Tesla is the company that will dominate all auto sales for the foreseeable future—and those who have shorted the stock, thinking that only hype has kept it afloat. Even the shorts can find themselves unintentionally pushing up the price in a rally because they have to buy additional shares to cover their positions.

Bill Selesky, senior research analyst at Argus Research, thinks that the run up has been a combination of all these factors. “It’s hard to tell which part has the most influence,” he told Fortune in an email exchange, “but I think more and more that the market is telling itself that EVs are a real part of the future and there’s no turning back.”

Brad Cornell, emeritus professor of finance at UCLA and managing director at global consulting firm BRG, had shorted 1,000 Tesla shares for a fund he runs, and lost some money in the process. He closed out most of his position, but still had 200 shares shorted.

“When this craziness started, we met and said we don’t understand this,” Cornell said. “We think it’s overvalued but we’re not going to risk out investors’ money.”

Cornell agrees that Tesla is currently the leader in the EV market, “but the competition is finally waking up,” he said. “My suspicion is they’re going to lose money in the quarter ended March and that’s going to cause a lot of problems.”

Cornell pointed to a valuation of Tesla done by a colleague of his: Aswath Damodaran, a professor of finance at NYU’s Stern School of Business. Damodaran initially estimated in June 2019 that within 10 years, the company would have $100 billion in annual revenue (that’s more than four times its 2019 sales) with a 10% pre-tax operating margin (last year, -2.7%), making a current value of a share worth $190. He bought at $180.

With shares closing just over $734 today, it was a great trade. But as with all things Tesla, you just never know what’s going to happen tomorrow. 

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-03-18
company: Tesla
event: COVID factory controversy
title: Alameda County says Tesla has cut its workforce. But will it stop making cars?
text:
Tesla told Alameda County authorities Wednesday it has scaled back the workforce at its Fremont auto plant. But it was not clear what that means for the company’s production of electric vehicles.

The Palo Alto-based company has been operating the factory — which normally employs about 10,000 people, making model S, X, 3 and Y vehicles — this week despite a multi-county Bay Area lockdown order issued Monday to reduce the spread of coronavirus. Tesla told Alameda County Wednesday that 2,500 workers are now at the plant.

“We had a good conversation with Tesla today,” said Alameda County spokesman Ray Kelly. “They understand our position. The county explained they cannot continue their business as usual. They have to go on a minimum operations basis.”

The lockdown order allows companies to continue minimum basic operations, defined as payroll, security, and preservation of inventory value. That list does not include car making, Kelly acknowledged, and said “it sounds like they’re still making cars.”

Tesla did not return calls for comment.

Asked what, if anything, the county would do if production continues, Kelly said, “Tesla is not going to decide what the law is.” Enforcement, he said, will be handled by Fremont Police.

The Times emailed police spokeswoman Gloria Bosques and asked how the department will assess Tesla compliance with the county order. She did not respond.

Earlier, Bosques referred the media to a statement on the police website, which reads in part: “We are currently communicating with legal counsel and coordinating with the County of Alameda, the Alameda County Public Health Department and Federal Government to better understand and interpret their guidelines in the face of a variety of other state and federal regulations.” It said nothing about Tesla.

In an email sent to factory workers at 8:49 a.m. Wednesday, Tesla human resources head Valerie Capers Workman said, “There are no changes in your normal assignment and you should continue to report for work if you are in an essential function” which she said include “production, service, deliveries, testing and supporting groups.” Sick workers could stay home and use their accumulated paid time off, she said.

She cited “conflicting guidance from different levels of government” on how to handle the coronavirus pandemic.

Workman didn’t detail conflicting government guidance, but in an email to employees early Tuesday morning she said “the federal government has directed that all National Critical Infrastructure continue to operate during this global pandemic,” which she said covers “business sectors crucial to the economic prosperity and continuity of the United States.” That includes auto manufacturing, she said, but didn’t include a source.

“People need access to transportation and energy, and we are essential to providing it,” she wrote.

Tesla Chief Executive Elon Musk had minimized what he called “panic” reaction to the virus on Twitter and in an email Monday night. In his email, Musk said, “My frank opinion is that the harm from the coronavirus panic far exceeds that of the virus itself,” and he said that COVID-19 cases “will not exceed 0.1% of the population.”

“I will personally be at work, but that’s just me,” he wrote, and ended the email with, “I’d rather you were at home and not stressed, than at work and worried.”

Thousands of workers streamed into the factory Tuesday, many arriving by bus.

More than a dozen employees sent messages to The Times complaining about Tesla’s failure to comply with the lockdown order. Several said they feared catching the virus and spreading it to family but also feared losing their jobs if they stayed home.

On late Wednesday afternoon, one worker who did not want to be identified for fear of losing her job said via a Twitter direct message that “all production still running” on the assembly line.

It’s not clear what impact a production shutdown would have on Tesla’s finances. At the end of 2019, the company reported having about $6 billion of cash. It raised $2 billion from the sale of new shares of stock a month ago, at $767 a share — more than twice the price that its shares currently trade at. (Tesla closed down 16% at $361.22 on Wednesday, down more than 60% from its all-time high of $917.42 on Feb. 19.)

The cash raise should provide a strong cushion, said Wedbush analyst Dan Ives. “That’s the best move they ever made, raising capital when they could,” Ives said. “If they hadn’t, we would be having a totally different conversation today about Tesla.”

While postponing production in Fremont would hurt, he said, “a shutdown is less of a longer-term concern than demand,” he said. “Right now, the average consumer is worried about their health, getting groceries and hand sanitizer, and they are not focused on buying cars.”

Tesla has a second factory in Shanghai, China, which has reopened after a coronavirus shutdown. But the pandemic has caused a crippling hit to auto sales in China, the world’s largest auto market, where overall sales were down 80% in February from the same month a year ago.

Other large automakers are temporarily shutting down U.S. plants in an effort to contain the coronavirus, Bloomberg reported. Ford will stop operations at all North American factories after Thursday evening shifts, according to a statement. GM and Fiat Chrysler also plan to idle factories, according to people familiar with the matter.

Honda Motor Co. said it plans to suspend North American production for six days. And Daimler AG told workers its Mercedes SUV factory in Alabama may have to close because of a shortage of parts coming from Europe.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-05-01
event: Stock price too high tweet
company: Tesla
title: Tesla tumbles after tweet from Musk account saying stock too high
text:
May 1 (Reuters) - Shares of Tesla Inc tumbled 12% on Friday following a tweet from Chief Executive Elon Musk's Twitter account that the electric car maker's recently high-flying stock is overly expensive.
The tweet was one of several unusual messages, including ones quoting parts of the U.S. national anthem and that he would sell almost all his physical possessions, raising questions about whether Musk's account was compromised.
"Tesla stock price is too high," Musk's Twitter account tweeted. Reuters could not immediately verify whether Musk sent the tweet.
Tesla and Twitter did not immediately respond to requests for comment about whether Musk's account had been hacked.
A year ago, Musk settled a dispute with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over his use of Twitter, agreeing to submit his public statements about Tesla's finances and other topics to vetting by the company's legal counsel.
Tesla's stock has surged in recent weeks, but is down since Wednesday when the company reported an unexpected quarterly profit, despite manufacturing interruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
Including Friday's drop, the shares remain up over 40% from May 1, 2019.
Musk's latest tweets follow others by the billionaire this week, as well as comments on Tesla's quarterly conference call on Wednesday, criticizing the California government's stay-at-home orders, which have forced him to shut Tesla's plant in Fremont, California.

Reporting by Noel Randewich in San Francisco Editing by Matthew Lewis

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-12-21
company: Tesla
event: S&P 500 inclusion
title: Tesla joins Wall Street's S&P 500 share index
text:
Tesla has joined Wall Street’s prestigious S&P 500 share index as its sixth-largest member, immediately rubbing shoulders with the likes of Amazon, Apple and Facebook.

Shares in the electric carmaker fell by more than 5% on its debut day on Monday, amid widespread investor concern about the potential impact on global trade of the mutant coronavirus strain identified in the UK.

But its entry into the upper echelons of the US’s flagship stock index, despite never having made an annual profit, racks up another milestone for its billionaire founder, Elon Musk.

Tesla’s shares surged to a record high of $695 on Friday, valuing the company at more than $650bn, less than six months after it overhauled Toyota to become the world’s most valuable carmaker. Ford is valued at about $35bn.

The increase was partly caused by a buying spree linked to the scheduled entry into the S&P 500, because funds that automatically invest in members of the index snapped up about $90bn of stock in readiness.

But the performance also continued a long-term trend that has caused shares of the electric vehicle maker to soar by nearly 700% over the past year.

Tesla is yet to make a profit for a single financial year, although it has racked up successive positive results in quarterly earnings figures.

While some investors have warned it is significantly overvalued, its soaraway share price indicates the majority think it can deliver on its promise.

Backers believe the company’s technological prowess puts it in pole position to beat traditional automotive firms at securing top spot in the burgeoning electric car market.

Tesla, which faced questions over whether it could avoid a cash crunch only 18 months ago, will account for 1.69% of the S&P 500. For every $11.11 Tesla’s share price moves, the S&P 500 will change by a point.

Musk and other Tesla insiders own about a fifth of its shares.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-11-13
company: Amazon
event: HQ2 announcement (NYC/Arlington)
title: Amazon HQ2: tech giant splits new home across New York City and Virginia
text:
Amazon has announced it will open new offices in New York City and Arlington, Virginia, capping a year-long contest to host the tech giant’s new headquarters that drew bids from hundreds of US cities.

The company plans to spend $5bn on its two new headquarters, with 25,000 employees each in Long Island City in Queens, New York, and in Arlington, outside Washington DC. Amazon also plans to open a new center handling transportation and order fulfillment in Nashville, which it says will employ about 5,000 workers.

Amazon had received more than 200 proposals from cities across North America vying to host the new headquarters, which will be in addition to its base in Seattle.

At all three confirmed sites, Amazon is set to receive nearly $3.5bn in public subsidies.

“We are excited to build new headquarters in New York City and northern Virginia,” said Amazon’s CEO, Jeff Bezos. “These two locations will allow us to attract world-class talent that will help us to continue inventing for customers for years to come.”

Amazon’s search, launched more than a year ago, brought in 238 bids from cities across North America, from heavy favorites like the eventual winners to smaller spots like Frisco in Texas and Danbury in Connecticut.

The competition brought it not just lucrative subsidy offers, but a rich trove of data about demographic patterns, infrastructure plans and workforce details.

Amazon narrowed the competition to 20 finalists in June, with cities such as Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Los Angeles and Newark left in the running.

New York state has agreed to kick in $1.525bn in subsidies, the company disclosed in its announcement. That includes a tax credit worth up to $1.2bn, and a cash grant of $325m from the Empire State Development agency.

The company is planning to take up 4m sq ft of office space in Long Island City, a Queens neighborhood across the river from Manhattan.

In addition, Amazon is applying for tax benefits through two city programs that give breaks to any company that relocates to the boroughs outside Manhattan, or builds new industrial and commercial space.

Those programs could bring Amazon another $1.3bn in business tax credits and property tax breaks.

The company agreed to donate space on its new campus for a tech startup incubator and a new public school.

At the Virginia site, about three miles from downtown Washington DC, Amazon is set to receive $573m in subsidies. That includes cash grants of $550m from the state of Virginia and $23m from Arlington, based on its promises to create high-paying jobs.

They will open another 4m sq ft of office space at a location they are calling National Landing, a newly coined name that includes parts of Crystal City and Pentagon City.

The company says it will spend $195m on improvements to the Crystal City and the Potomac Yards metro stations, a pedestrian bridge connecting National Landing and Reagan national airport, and other infrastructure projects.

The Seattle-based tech giant is set to start hiring at both locations next year. It says average salaries will top $150,000 at both sites.

“This is the largest economic development initiative that has ever been done by the city or the state,” New York’s governor, Andrew Cuomo, said at a press conference on Tuesday. “Either you are creating jobs, or you are losing jobs. Either you are part of the economy of tomorrow, or you’re part of the economy of yesterday. This is a competition.”

But the company has faced a backlash for conducting an extensive headquarters search, and soliciting generous subsidy offers from cities around the country, only to settle on two of the highest-profile metropolitan areas on the east coast.

“The whole exercise was just to create more pressure for more tax breaks,” said Greg LeRoy of Good Jobs First.

Local politicians are vowing to fight the project, with a protest planned for Wednesday in Queens.

“Amazon is a billion-dollar company. The idea that it will receive hundreds of millions of dollars in tax breaks at a time when our subway is crumbling and our communities need more investment, not less, is extremely concerning to residents here,” said Queens congresswoman-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.

New York and Virginia also both pledged to help the company get approval to build helipads at its new campuses.

Cuomo and New York City’s mayor, Bill de Blasio, pushed back against criticism of the subsidies, saying they expected to make back nine times as much in tax revenue. “We make money doing this,” Cuomo said.

The project is set to be approved by a state agency, circumventing the vote by city lawmakers that would typically be required, Cuomo confirmed.

Nashville is getting a consolation prize in the headquarter contest, and the state and city are giving Amazon $102m in cash subsidies and tax breaks.

The new Amazon center there is planned for downtown Nashville, along the Cumberland river.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2023-01-02
company: Amazon
event: Divorce announcement
title: Amazon boss Jeff Bezos and wife MacKenzie to divorce
text:
Jeff Bezos, the boss of Amazon and the world’s richest man, has announced his divorce from MacKenzie, his wife of 25 years.

Bezos, who married MacKenzie (née Tuttle) in 1993, a year before he started Amazon from his garage in Seattle, broke the news of the split in a tweet signed by both of them.

Bezos, 54, who has built up a $137bn (£107bn) fortune, said they had decided to split up after a “long period of loving exploration and trial separation”. The couple, who have four children (three sons and a daughter), vowed to remain “a family” and “cherished friends”.

If they split their assets equally, MacKenzie could become the richest woman in the world overnight. Her half-share of the combined fortune would be $68.5bn, which would put her fifth in the world rich list. The current richest woman is Françoise Bettencourt Meyers, heiress of the L’Oréal empire.

In the tweet, Bezos said: “As our family and close friends know, after a long period of loving exploration and trial separation, we have decided to divorce and continue our shared lives as friends.

“We feel incredibly lucky to have found each other and deeply grateful for every one of the years we have been married to each other,” the couple said. “If we had known we would separate after 25 years, we would do it all again.”

The couple met at New York hedge fund DE Shaw when he interviewed her for a job at the firm. They got engaged within three months of meeting, and after another three months they married.

Shortly afterwards Bezos told her his idea for selling books over the internet, and while admitting she had “no business sense whatsoever” MacKenzie said she could see “how excited he was” and agreed they should leave New York for Seattle to explore his idea.

Until he met MacKenzie in 1993, Bezos had attempted to apply analytics to finding love. He called it “women flow” and reckoned he could increase his attractiveness to women if he took up ballroom dancing.

MacKenzie, a novelist and founder of anti-bullying group Bystander Revolution, told Vogue that it was she who had chased Bezos and not the other way round.

“My office was next door to his, and all day long I listened to that fabulous laugh,” she said in 2013. “How could you not fall in love with that laugh?”

She said marrying Bezos definitely made her “a lottery winner of a certain kind … and it makes my life wonderful in many ways, but that’s not the lottery I feel defined by”.

Bezos told Vogue his wife was “resourceful, smart, brainy and hot, but I had the good fortune of having seen her résumé before I met her, so I knew exactly what her SATs [high school exam results] were”.

The announcement of their decision to divorce comes three days before Bezos’s 55th birthday, and two days after Amazon rose to become the world’s most valuable company with a stock market value of $797bn (£634bn).

Bezos still owns 16% of Amazon, which together with his space exploration company Blue Origin and a large property portfolio, makes him the richest person in the world with a “net worth” of $137bn, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.

His wealth has increased by $12bn (or nearly 10%) so far this year as Amazon’s shares have rallied strongly. He has enough wealth to cover Britain’s budget deficit twice over and still have change.

Washington state, where the couple and Amazon is based, is a community property state, which means all property acquired during a marriage “will be divided equitably by the court if the couple cannot negotiate an agreement”.


=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2019-02-07
company: Amazon
event: National Enquirer extortion claims
title: Jeff Bezos accuses National Enquirer owner of 'extortion and blackmail'
text:
Jeff Bezos has accused the publisher of the National Enquirer of “extortion and blackmail” in a blogpost alleging it threatened to publish revealing personal photos unless the Amazon chief executive publicly affirmed the paper’s reporting was not politically motivated.

Bezos, who is the world’s richest man and owns the Washington Post, became the subject of tabloid papers in January after he and his wife, MacKenzie, announced they were divorcing. Shortly after, the National Enquirer published “intimate text messages” revealing Bezos’s relationship with Lauren Sánchez, a former TV anchor.

Bezos wrote in a Medium blogpost that he employed the private security consultant Gavin de Becker “to determine the motives for the many unusual actions taken by the Enquirer”, which is published by American Media Inc (AMI).

Bezos said an “AMI leader” subsequently told him that David Pecker, the chief executive of AMI, was “apoplectic” about the private investigation.

In the blogpost, titled “No thank you, Mr Pecker”, Bezos accused AMI of telling him “they had more of my text messages and photos that they would publish if we didn’t stop our investigation”.

Bezos said his ownership of the Washington Post was a “complexifier” because it had made him the enemy of people including Donald Trump, who has frequently targeted him. Pecker is a longtime confidant of the president.

In December, prosecutors in the southern district of New York gave AMI immunity from prosecution for its cooperation in the investigation into Trump’s presidential campaign and alleged hush payments to a Playboy model. AMI admitted the company had coordinated with Trump’s presidential campaign to “catch and kill” – buy up but not publish – the story of Karen McDougal, the model who claimed she had an affair with Trump. AMI admitted it had worked “in concert” with the campaign to pay McDougal $150,000 for her story and then suppress it. Bezos noted in the blogpost that AMI had entered into the immunity deal.

According to Bezos, AMI’s chief content officer, Dylan Howard, emailed threats to Bezos’s lawyer, Martin Singer, allegedly writing: “[I]n the interests of expediating [sic] this situation, and with The Washington Post poised to publish unsubstantiated rumors of The National Enquirer’s initial report, I wanted to describe to you the photos obtained during our newsgathering.”

The email, which Bezos published in full, but with personal information redacted, said the Enquirer had obtained a “below the belt selfie – otherwise colloquially known as a ‘d*ck pick’” as well as nine other images. Those included a selfie, a shirtless photo of Bezos holding his phone “while wearing his wedding ring”, a “full-length body selfie” of him in his underwear, and photos and messages from Sánchez.

“It would give no editor pleasure to send this email. I hope common sense can prevail – and quickly,” Howard allegedly wrote.

Bezos’s blogpost also included an email from Jon Fine, an AMI lawyer, seeking “a public, mutually agreed upon acknowledgment from the Bezos parties, released through a mutually agreeable news outlet, affirming that they have no knowledge or basis for suggesting that AM’s coverage was politically motivated or influenced by political forces, and an agreement that they will cease referring to such a possibility”.

The proposed agreement in Fine’s email also said: “AM agrees not to publish, distribute, share, or describe unpublished texts and photos (the ‘Unpublished Materials’)”.

Bezos wrote on Thursday: “Rather than capitulate to extortion and blackmail, I’ve decided to publish exactly what they sent me, despite the personal cost and embarrassment they threaten.

“Any personal embarrassment AMI could cause me takes a back seat because there’s a much more important matter involved here. If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?”

He continued: “Be assured, no real journalists ever propose anything like what is happening here: I will not report embarrassing information about you if you do X for me. And if you don’t do X quickly, I will report the embarrassing information.”

National Enquirer and AMI representatives did not immediately respond to request for comment. Amazon and Bezos’s attorney also did not immediately respond to inquiries.


=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2019-02-14
company: Amazon
event: HQ2 NYC cancellation
title: Amazon cancels plans for New York headquarters after fierce opposition
text:
Amazon has cancelled its plans for a new headquarters in New York City following a torrent of local political opposition.

“After much thought and deliberation, we’ve decided not to move forward with our plans to build a headquarters for Amazon in Long Island City, Queens,” the company said in a statement.

“For Amazon, the commitment to build a new headquarters requires positive, collaborative relationships with state and local elected officials who will be supportive over the long-term.”

Amazon announced its plans for a new secondary campus late last year, but said political reaction caused it to reconsider.

“While polls show that 70% of New Yorkers support our plans and investment, a number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward with the project we and many others envisioned in Long Island City,” the company said.

Amazon ran a competition among cities in North America vying to host its second headquarters, and chose New York and Arlington, Virginia. The company will not reopen the contest, but will proceed with the Virginia plan, where it got a much warmer welcome, officials said. “We do not intend to reopen the HQ2 search at this time,” the company’s statement said.

The tech giant was planning a waterfront campus in Queens where it would employ 25,000 people, and get $3bn in subsidies and tax breaks from the state and city. It was supported by New York City mayor Bill de Blasio and the governor, Andrew Cuomo.

De Blasio condemned the company’s decision to pull out, saying it wasn’t tough enough to stand up to the heat.

“You have to be tough to make it in New York City. We gave Amazon the opportunity to be a good neighbor and do business in the greatest city in the world. Instead of working with the community, Amazon threw away that opportunity,” he said Thursday. “We have the best talent in the world and every day we are growing a stronger and fairer economy for everyone. If Amazon can’t recognize what that’s worth, its competitors will.”

But Cuomo directed his ire at opponents. “A small group of politicians put their own narrow political interests above their community – which poll after poll showed overwhelmingly supported bringing Amazon to Long Island City – the state’s economic future and the best interests of the people of this state,” he said. “The New York state senate has done tremendous damage. They should be held accountable for this lost economic opportunity.”

Local politicians and activists railed against the project. A leading opponent, state senator Michael Gianaris, was appointed last week to a state board with veto power over the project. That posed a regulatory hurdle to a deal that had been engineered to avoid the usual lengthy approval process including a vote in the city council.

“Defeating an anti-union corporation that mistreats workers and assists Ice [Immigration and Customs Enforcement] in terrorizing immigrant communities is a victory. Defeating an unprecedented act of corporate welfare is a triumph that should change the way we do economic development deals in our city and state forever,” said city councilman Jimmy Van Bramer, a Democrat who represents Long Island City.

Amazon, which had considered its headquarters a prize for cities to compete for, folded with remarkable speed in face of the opposition, announcing it was pulling out just three months after launching the plan.

“This whole process shows why Amazon would have been a bad partner for New York. Rather than engage with the community that would be most affected by their project, they instead decide to pack up and leave like a petulant child,” Gianaris told the Guardian.

Its plans were met with marches and rallies in opposition, and Amazon executives further angered opponents by declaring at a City Council hearing that they would oppose any effort by employees to unionize. A helipad that authorities agreed to let the company add to its campus was blasted as an extravagant perk.

Supporters and opponents had girded for a long fight, and many saw warnings that Amazon was reconsidering its plans as a threat intended to quiet critics. Instead, the company quickly chose to abandon the plan, which it had not purchased property for. Its agreements with the city and state were non-binding.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2019-07-15
company: Amazon
event: Prime Day technical outage
title: Amazon Just had a Worst-Case-Scenario Moment for the Second Year in a Row. Here’s Why It’s a Big Deal
text:
If you’re the world’s largest online retailer, and one of the most valuable companies on earth, the worst thing that could happen would be if your customers were unable to add items to their cart during one of your biggest sales of the year. Of course, if it happened two years in a row, people start to wonder how that’s even possible. 

This morning, for about two hours during Amazon’s Prime Day sale, customers took to social media to report that they were unable to add items to their cart as they tried to scoop up deals on gadgets and other deeply discounted items.

That’s sort of a basic function of an online store, and you can imagine their frustration after all of the hype surrounding Prime Day. You can especially relate when you remember that Amazon had a similar outage on last year’s sale. An Amazon spokeswoman declined to comment.

This is actually a really big deal. Analysts estimate that Amazon will bring in as much as $5 billion over the 48-hour sale that started this morning. That would make it Amazon’s biggest day ever. A two-hour glitch during prime shopping hours the first morning translates into enough pain that the company’s stock had dropped as much as 0.5 percent.

That might not seem like much, but for a company the size of Amazon, that translates into real money. And while it’s too early to tell what the actual financial impact of those lost sales might be, it’s not hard to imagine that it’s easily in the millions of dollars.
You had one job.

The bigger problem for Amazon is that it looks unprepared, for the second year in a row, for the surge of shoppers that it invited to shop Prime Day. It’s an especially glaring issue since the shoppers who participate have already ponied up a fee to be a part of the company’s exclusive Amazon Prime membership.

It would be like inviting all of your friends over for a huge summer BBQ, and discovering that your grill won’t light. I mean, stuff happens, but maybe that’s something we should have checked ahead of time. 

Actually, it would be like selling tickets to a huge summer BBQ, to all your friends, and then discovering the grill won’t light. 

That’s really bad. 
Stuff happens, but that’s not an excuse.

Look, stuff happens. That’s business. People understand that sometimes technology doesn’t do what you want it to. And if you run a business, you’ve surely had an experience where things just didn’t go the way you planned.

But when you’re Amazon, there’s an expectation that you’re going to have your stuff together.

You’re the experts. You’re the guys who do this for a living. 

And what about the thousands of small business merchants who participate in Prime Day by selling their own products through Amazon’s Marketplace and Handmade storefront. 

Here’s the lesson: when you make a promise to your customers, to your partners, or to anyone, your job is to keep that promise. When you promise low prices on lots of cool stuff, you break that promise when people can’t actually, you know, buy any of it. 

When you promise other businesses access to millions of customers for their products, you break that promise when they can’t sell it because you’re having a “glitch.” Your job is to do whatever it takes to deliver on that promise–especially when your track record is beginning to lean in the direction of unprepared. 

It’s not unheard of for websites to malfunction, but I think you could argue Amazon should have been prepared considering this isn’t the first time they’ve experienced problems on Prime Day. It’s not like they didn’t know that millions of people were about to descend on their site.

Plus, it’s not clear that increased traffic had anything to do with this particular shopping cart glitch. Regardless, whether it was the increase in traffic or a rogue piece of code that wasn’t behaving, it’s still your job to get it right when you’ve made a promise. 

Amazon still hasn’t told customers what happened, but the site seemed to return to normal around 1:30 pm EST.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-04-30
company: Amazon
event: Q1 earnings beat (COVID boost)
title: Amazon Q1 beats on net sales of $75.5B but posts net income of $2.5B, down $1B on a year ago
text:
Amazon has been one of the biggest names synonymous with how the consumer masses are experiencing life under lockdown: its site lets you buy anything from soup to nuts, from books to baking pans for all your sourdough; and via its streaming services, it gives you many ways to stay entertained. But it can also be a source of major frustration when you find yourself unable to book slots for deliveries, or are facing an army of sellers trying to price gouge you for hot items like masks or toilet paper.

Today, the company reported first quarter earnings that bore out the first of these in spades, but at a cost to profitability as it works to serve a public under a whole new set of challenging conditions.

The company reported net sales of $75.5 billion, up 26% on a year ago, a huge boost on the $59.7 billion it made in net sales in the first quarter a year ago. Indeed, $41 billion of the sum was attributable to product sales and $33 billion to services (which includes AWS, but also streaming and other non-physical goods).

But earnings per share took a hit, with basic EPS at $5.09 and diluted EPS at $5.01, and net income declining down to $2.535 billion versus $3.561 billion a year ago.

Operating income was also down, to $4 billion versus operating income of $4.4 billion in the same quarter a year ago.

Analysts on average were expecting EPS of $6.25 on revenues of $73.61 billion in sales. It was a repeat of the pattern we saw from eBay’s earnings yesterday, albeit on a much, much bigger scale.

On top of all this, the company provided guidance that indicated that it could swing into an operating loss in Q2. It said it expected net sales of between $75.0 billion and $81.0 billion, or to grow between 18% and 28% compared with second quarter 2019 (but largely flat with this quarter). But operating income is expected to be between negative $1.5 billion and $1.5 billion, versus $3.1 billion a year ago. “This guidance assumes approximately $4.0 billion of costs related to COVID-19,” the company said. 

The results sent Amazon’s stock down nearly 5% in after-hours trading.

Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s colourful founder and CEO, acknowledged the challenges even the mighty Amazon is facing, but also reiterated, similar to Q2 guidance, that the company plans to double down on spending to face up to serving people during the COVID-19 pandemic, whatever it might bring. It’s a long statement (in what is a very, very wordy press release overall):

    From online shopping to AWS to Prime Video and Fire TV, the current crisis is demonstrating the adaptability and durability of Amazon’s business as never before, but it’s also the hardest time we’ve ever faced. We are inspired by all the essential workers we see doing their jobs — nurses and doctors, grocery store cashiers, police officers, and our own extraordinary frontline employees. The service we provide has never been more critical, and the people doing the frontline work — our employees and all the contractors throughout our supply chain — are counting on us to keep them safe as they do that work. We’re not going to let them down. Providing for customers and protecting employees as this crisis continues for more months is going to take skill, humility, invention, and money. If you’re a shareowner in Amazon, you may want to take a seat, because we’re not thinking small. Under normal circumstances, in this coming Q2, we’d expect to make some $4 billion or more in operating profit. But these aren’t normal circumstances. Instead, we expect to spend the entirety of that $4 billion, and perhaps a bit more, on COVID-related expenses getting products to customers and keeping employees safe. This includes investments in personal protective equipment, enhanced cleaning of our facilities, less efficient process paths that better allow for effective social distancing, higher wages for hourly teams, and hundreds of millions to develop our own COVID-19 testing capabilities. There is a lot of uncertainty in the world right now, and the best investment we can make is in the safety and well-being of our hundreds of thousands of employees. I’m confident that our long-term oriented shareowners will understand and embrace our approach, and that in fact they would expect no less.

Of note: Amazon Web Services accounted for $10.2 billion in sales, up 33% on the same quarter a year ago. North America accounted for about $44 billion of the company’s net sales, versus $19 billion for the international segment.

And while services are not quite yet overtaking product sales, the company is seeing its services revenues are growing much faster, at 33% versus 22%. Services include not just video streaming, but grocery delivery and other non-physical paid products that Amazon provides.

At a time when we’ve seen tens of thousands of people laid off across the technology sector, Amazon has been one of the few companies to hire, specifically to staff up with 100,000 extra workers across warehouses and its logistics network to meet surging demand from buyers. That has not always been smooth sailing however, with accusations of poor and potentially health-threatening working conditions.

This has been a thorny issue for the company, so it’s no surprise that in its earnings report, it prominently reminded investors that it has made “over 150 significant process changes in our operations network and Whole Foods Market stores to help teams stay healthy — and we conduct daily audits of the measures we’ve put into place.”

It also noted that it has procured 100 million face masks (presumably not on Amazon itself, where economical ones have been very hard to find) and are requiring that they be worn by all associates, drivers and support staff in our operations network. “We purchased more than 1,000 thermal cameras and 31,000 thermometers, which we are using to conduct mandatory daily temperature checks for employees and support staff throughout our operations sites and Whole Foods Market stores,” it noted.

Those thermal cameras have also, however, been a point of contention: Reuters this week reported that those cameras were sourced from Dahua, a Chinese company currently blacklisted by the U.S. government.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-07-29
company: Amazon
event: Congress antitrust testimony
title: Facebook and Amazon grilled over history of aggressive competitive practices at antitrust congressional hearing
text:
acebook and Amazon spent much of Wednesday’s congressional antitrust hearing about Big Tech trying to defend accusations that they have participated in aggressive and unfair practices while growing their massive empires.

The five-and-half-hour virtual hearing, hosted by the House Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, gave Congress members the chance to question Apple CEO Tim Cook, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, and Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google’s parent company Alphabet. While Congress members used the opportunity to dig into all four companies, Facebook and Amazon ultimately faced some of the most damning antitrust allegations.

Congress said competitors referred to Amazon as a drug dealer that bullies third-party sellers.  And the subcommittee brought up former statements in which Facebook was referred to as going into “destroy mode” amid its attempts to buy Instagram and was characterized as being on a ”digital land grab” to maintain its market dominance.

While Zuckerberg disagreed with the description of his company and its practices, he did suggest that Facebook regularly works on products that are inspired by his competitors.

“We’ve certainly adapted features that others have led in,” Zuckerberg said.

Apple walked away relatively unscathed. Though Congress did address Google stifling small businesses by “stealing” information, including Yelp reviews, Google mostly fielded questions about issues like its work with the U.S. and Chinese governments and data privacy

The antitrust hearing was the first time the four CEOs of some of the largest global tech companies testified before Congress at the same time—and a first for Bezos. It also occurred as the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice continue their antitrust investigations into the four companies. The tech companies have faced rising global scrutiny from regulators and users who are concerned with the amount of data these companies collect, how they manage that data, and their growing power.

U.S. Rep. Pramila Jayapal, a Democrat representing Washington’s 7th congressional district, addressed how Facebook handled its purchase of Instagram and its attempt to buy SnapChat. She accused the social media giant of cloning competitors’ products amid acquisition negotiations with the company. When Zuckerberg said he could not recall any threats to competitors, Jayapal reminded him he was under oath and that the subcommittee had emails suggesting otherwise.

“I want to respectively disagree with the characterization,” Zuckerberg said in reference to emails about Instagram. “It was clear this [mobile cameras] was a space we were going to compete in.”

Meanwhile, Rep. Mary Scanlon, a Democrat who represents Pennsylvania’s 5th district, addressed Amazon’s “aggressive” plan to win over competitor Diapers.com. She questioned Bezos about why the company temporarily slashed prices, making it impossible for Diapers.com to compete. Then when Amazon completed the purchase, the company drove the price up, Scanlon said.

“I don’t remember that at all,” Bezos said in response. “We match competitive prices.”

Congress members also expressed concern over whether Amazon is accessing third-party seller data in order to build its own product lines to compete with those brands. Amazon has a policy against viewing individual sellers’ data, though it does analyze the data in aggregate.

“I can’t guarantee that policy has never been violated,” Bezos said. “We continue to look into that. We’re not sure we’ve gotten to the bottom of that.”

At one point, Lucy McBath, a Democratic representative from Georgia’s 6th district, played a recording of a top Amazon bookseller who claimed her competing business had been removed from Amazon’s marketplace without reason—and none of her requests for assistance, including those directly to Bezos, were answered.

“We followed all the rules,” the bookseller said in the recording. “There are 14 lives at stake. Please, please, please help us get back on track.”

And while the hearing didn’t point to any specific regulatory action that may follow, it did show that across the aisle, Congress is concerned with the compounding issues related to the tech companies. Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat representing New York, suggested that the concentration of power is dangerous to a Democratic society, and that four tech companies, in particular, deserved a closer look.

But Jim Sensenbrenner, a Republican representing Wisconsin’s 5th district, indicated that Congress needed to focus on enforcement of antitrust laws versus altering them. “Congress does a poor job of picking winners and losers,” he said. “I have reached the conclusion we do not need to change our antitrust laws.”

If Congress doesn’t act following the hearing, President Donald Trump has said he intends to step in. “If Congress doesn’t bring fairness to Big Tech, which they should have done years ago, I will do it myself with Executive Orders,” he tweeted prior to the hearing on Wednesday. “In Washington, it has been ALL TALK and NO ACTION for years, and the people of our Country are sick and tired of it!”

Congress members in both parties have been arguing that Big Tech has largely been unregulated and that new laws need to be put in place to rein them in. Democrats have been mostly concerned with the companies’ power and their access to people’s personal data, while Republicans have been concerned with issues like suppressing conservative views across the tech platforms.

As expected, many Congress members took the opportunity to hammer home issues of personal interest, even if they weren’t related to antitrust concerns. Data privacy, content moderation, and political bias were common topics of discussion. Bezos also took the opportunity say, “social media is a nuanced destruction machine,” and is a harm to democracy.

Meanwhile, the four CEOs tried to show that their products and services help consumers, and that they all face competition from numerous other companies. For example, Bezos referred to Walmart, Target, and Costco as primary competitors to Amazon. And Zuckerberg listed companies including TikTok, Apple, and Google, which provide competing social media and messaging services.

“As I understand our laws, companies aren’t bad just because they are big,” Zuckerberg said in his prepared remarks that were released ahead of the hearing. “Many large companies that fail to compete cease to exist.”

Rep. David Cecilline, chair of the subcommittee and a Democratic congressman representing Rhode Island, ended the hearing with next steps. The subcommittee is expected to publish a report with the findings of their investigation and proposed solutions.

“These companies that exist today have monopoly power,” he said. “Some need to be broken up, all need to be properly regulated.”

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-03-17
company: Meta
event: Cambridge Analytica scandal
title: Revealed: 50 million Facebook profiles harvested for Cambridge Analytica in major data breach
text:
The data analytics firm that worked with Donald Trump’s election team and the winning Brexit campaign harvested millions of Facebook profiles of US voters, in one of the tech giant’s biggest ever data breaches, and used them to build a powerful software program to predict and influence choices at the ballot box.

A whistleblower has revealed to the Observer how Cambridge Analytica – a company owned by the hedge fund billionaire Robert Mercer, and headed at the time by Trump’s key adviser Steve Bannon – used personal information taken without authorisation in early 2014 to build a system that could profile individual US voters, in order to target them with personalised political advertisements.

Christopher Wylie, who worked with a Cambridge University academic to obtain the data, told the Observer: “We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles. And built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on.”

Documents seen by the Observer, and confirmed by a Facebook statement, show that by late 2015 the company had found out that information had been harvested on an unprecedented scale. However, at the time it failed to alert users and took only limited steps to recover and secure the private information of more than 50 million individuals.

The New York Times is reporting that copies of the data harvested for Cambridge Analytica could still be found online; its reporting team had viewed some of the raw data.

The data was collected through an app called thisisyourdigitallife, built by academic Aleksandr Kogan, separately from his work at Cambridge University. Through his company Global Science Research (GSR), in collaboration with Cambridge Analytica, hundreds of thousands of users were paid to take a personality test and agreed to have their data collected for academic use.

However, the app also collected the information of the test-takers’ Facebook friends, leading to the accumulation of a data pool tens of millions-strong. Facebook’s “platform policy” allowed only collection of friends’ data to improve user experience in the app and barred it being sold on or used for advertising. The discovery of the unprecedented data harvesting, and the use to which it was put, raises urgent new questions about Facebook’s role in targeting voters in the US presidential election. It comes only weeks after indictments of 13 Russians by the special counsel Robert Mueller which stated they had used the platform to perpetrate “information warfare” against the US.

Cambridge Analytica and Facebook are one focus of an inquiry into data and politics by the British Information Commissioner’s Office. Separately, the Electoral Commission is also investigating what role Cambridge Analytica played in the EU referendum.

“We are investigating the circumstances in which Facebook data may have been illegally acquired and used,” said the information commissioner Elizabeth Denham. “It’s part of our ongoing investigation into the use of data analytics for political purposes which was launched to consider how political parties and campaigns, data analytics companies and social media platforms in the UK are using and analysing people’s personal information to micro-target voters.”

On Friday, four days after the Observer sought comment for this story, but more than two years after the data breach was first reported, Facebook announced that it was suspending Cambridge Analytica and Kogan from the platform, pending further information over misuse of data. Separately, Facebook’s external lawyers warned the Observer it was making “false and defamatory” allegations, and reserved Facebook’s legal position.

The revelations provoked widespread outrage. The Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey announced that the state would be launching an investigation. “Residents deserve answers immediately from Facebook and Cambridge Analytica,” she said on Twitter.

The Democratic senator Mark Warner said the harvesting of data on such a vast scale for political targeting underlined the need for Congress to improve controls. He has proposed an Honest Ads Act to regulate online political advertising the same way as television, radio and print. “This story is more evidence that the online political advertising market is essentially the Wild West. Whether it’s allowing Russians to purchase political ads, or extensive micro-targeting based on ill-gotten user data, it’s clear that, left unregulated, this market will continue to be prone to deception and lacking in transparency,” he said.

Last month both Facebook and the CEO of Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, told a parliamentary inquiry on fake news: that the company did not have or use private Facebook data.

Simon Milner, Facebook’s UK policy director, when asked if Cambridge Analytica had Facebook data, told MPs: “They may have lots of data but it will not be Facebook user data. It may be data about people who are on Facebook that they have gathered themselves, but it is not data that we have provided.”

Cambridge Analytica’s chief executive, Alexander Nix, told the inquiry: “We do not work with Facebook data and we do not have Facebook data.”

Wylie, a Canadian data analytics expert who worked with Cambridge Analytica and Kogan to devise and implement the scheme, showed a dossier of evidence about the data misuse to the Observer which appears to raise questions about their testimony. He has passed it to the National Crime Agency’s cybercrime unit and the Information Commissioner’s Office. It includes emails, invoices, contracts and bank transfers that reveal more than 50 million profiles – mostly belonging to registered US voters – were harvested from the site in one of the largest-ever breaches of Facebook data. Facebook on Friday said that it was also suspending Wylie from accessing the platform while it carried out its investigation, despite his role as a whistleblower.

At the time of the data breach, Wylie was a Cambridge Analytica employee, but Facebook described him as working for Eunoia Technologies, a firm he set up on his own after leaving his former employer in late 2014.

The evidence Wylie supplied to UK and US authorities includes a letter from Facebook’s own lawyers sent to him in August 2016, asking him to destroy any data he held that had been collected by GSR, the company set up by Kogan to harvest the profiles.

That legal letter was sent several months after the Guardian first reported the breach and days before it was officially announced that Bannon was taking over as campaign manager for Trump and bringing Cambridge Analytica with him.

“Because this data was obtained and used without permission, and because GSR was not authorised to share or sell it to you, it cannot be used legitimately in the future and must be deleted immediately,” the letter said.

Facebook did not pursue a response when the letter initially went unanswered for weeks because Wylie was travelling, nor did it follow up with forensic checks on his computers or storage, he said.

“That to me was the most astonishing thing. They waited two years and did absolutely nothing to check that the data was deleted. All they asked me to do was tick a box on a form and post it back.”

Paul-Olivier Dehaye, a data protection specialist, who spearheaded the investigative efforts into the tech giant, said: “Facebook has denied and denied and denied this. It has misled MPs and congressional investigators and it’s failed in its duties to respect the law.

“It has a legal obligation to inform regulators and individuals about this data breach, and it hasn’t. It’s failed time and time again to be open and transparent.”

    We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of profiles. And built models to exploit that and target their inner demons

Christopher Wylie

A majority of American states have laws requiring notification in some cases of data breach, including California, where Facebook is based.

Facebook denies that the harvesting of tens of millions of profiles by GSR and Cambridge Analytica was a data breach. It said in a statement that Kogan “gained access to this information in a legitimate way and through the proper channels” but “did not subsequently abide by our rules” because he passed the information on to third parties.

Facebook said it removed the app in 2015 and required certification from everyone with copies that the data had been destroyed, although the letter to Wylie did not arrive until the second half of 2016. “We are committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information. We will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens,” Paul Grewal, Facebook’s vice-president, said in a statement. The company is now investigating reports that not all data had been deleted.

Kogan, who has previously unreported links to a Russian university and took Russian grants for research, had a licence from Facebook to collect profile data, but it was for research purposes only. So when he hoovered up information for the commercial venture, he was violating the company’s terms. Kogan maintains everything he did was legal, and says he had a “close working relationship” with Facebook, which had granted him permission for his apps.

The Observer has seen a contract dated 4 June 2014, which confirms SCL, an affiliate of Cambridge Analytica, entered into a commercial arrangement with GSR, entirely premised on harvesting and processing Facebook data. Cambridge Analytica spent nearly $1m on data collection, which yielded more than 50 million individual profiles that could be matched to electoral rolls. It then used the test results and Facebook data to build an algorithm that could analyse individual Facebook profiles and determine personality traits linked to voting behaviour.

The algorithm and database together made a powerful political tool. It allowed a campaign to identify possible swing voters and craft messages more likely to resonate.

“The ultimate product of the training set is creating a ‘gold standard’ of understanding personality from Facebook profile information,” the contract specifies. It promises to create a database of 2 million “matched” profiles, identifiable and tied to electoral registers, across 11 states, but with room to expand much further.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-04-10
company: Meta
event: Congress testimony Day 1
title: Mark Zuckerberg testimony: Facebook CEO open to regulation
text:
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg made his highly-anticipated appearance before Congress on Tuesday and apologized for his company's shortcomings and failure to protect users' information in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal and Russian interference in the 2016 election.

"We didn't take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake, and it was my mistake, and I'm sorry," Zuckerberg told lawmakers. But many of the senators weren't buying the 33-year-old billionaire's apology.

"We've seen the apology tours before," said Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Connecticut.

"After more than a decade of promises to do better, how is today's apology different?" said Sen. John Thune, R-South Dakota.

Next up, Zuckerberg will meet face his second public grilling before a House committee. 

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-04-11
company: Meta
event: Congress testimony Day 2
title: The key moments from Mark Zuckerberg's testimony to Congress
text:
Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, faced US Congress for the first time on Tuesday over the data sharing scandal.

Zuckerberg answered questions from the Senate commerce and judiciary committees on privacy, data mining, regulations and Cambridge Analytica during the course of the marathon five-hour hearing. Here are the key moments:
Right to privacy

“I believe it’s important to tell people exactly how the information that they share on Facebook is going to be used.

“That’s why, every single time you go to share something on Facebook, whether it’s a photo in Facebook, or a message, every single time, there’s a control right there about who you’re going to be sharing it with ... and you can change that and control that in line.

“To your broader point about the privacy policy ... long privacy policies are very confusing. And if you make it long and spell out all the detail, then you’re probably going to reduce the per cent of people who read it and make it accessible to them.”
His own privacy

Senator Dick Durbin asked if Zuckerberg would be comfortable sharing the name of the hotel he stayed in last night.

“No. I would probably not choose to do that publicly, here” he said. “I think everyone should have control over how their information is used.”
Cambridge Analytica

“Cambridge Analytica wasn’t using our services in 2015, as far as we can tell ... They weren’t an advertiser. They weren’t running pages. So we actually had nothing to ban.”

Later Zuckerberg corrected himself.

“I want to correct one thing that I said earlier in response to a question … [on] why we didn’t ban Cambridge Analytica at the time when we learned about them in 2015.

“[From] what my understanding was ... they were not on the platform, [they] were not an app developer or advertiser. When I went back and met with my team afterwards, they let me know that Cambridge Analytica actually did start as an advertiser later in 2015.

“So we could have in theory banned them then. We made a mistake by not doing so. But I just wanted to make sure that I updated that because I ... I ... I misspoke, or got that wrong earlier.

“When we heard back from Cambridge Analytica that they had told us that they weren’t using the data and deleted it, we considered it a closed case. In retrospect, that was clearly a mistake. We shouldn’t have taken their word for it. We’ve updated our policy to make sure we don’t make that mistake again.”
Storing and selling personal data

“Yes, we store data ... some of that content with people’s permission.”

“There’s a very common misconception that we sell data to advertisers. We do not sell data to advertisers.”

“What we allow is for advertisers to tell us who they want to reach, and then we do the placement … That’s a very fundamental part of how our model works and something that is often misunderstood.”

Senator Tammy Baldwin asks whether the Cambridge University neuroscientist Aleksandr Kogan sold the Facebook data to anyone besides Cambridge Analytica?

Zuckerberg: “Yes, he did.”

“We’re investigating every single app that had access to a large amount of information in the past. And if we find that someone improperly used data, we’re going to ban them from Facebook and tell everyone affected.”
Regulations

“My position is not that there should be no regulation.

“I think the real question, as the internet becomes more important in people’s lives, is what is the right regulation, not whether there should be or not.”
Russian interference

“One of my greatest regrets in running the company is that we were slow in identifying the Russian information operations in 2016.

“We have kicked off an investigation … I imagine we’ll find some things.

“There are people in Russia whose job it is to try to exploit our systems and other internet systems and other systems as well.

“This is an ongoing arms race. As long as there are people sitting in Russia whose job is it to try to interfere in elections around the world, this is going to be an ongoing conflict.”
Taking responsibility

“It was my mistake, and I’m sorry.

“I started Facebook, I run it, and I’m responsible for what happens here.

“It’s clear now that we didn’t do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm. That goes for fake news, foreign interference in elections, and hate speech, as well as developers and data privacy.”

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-07-26
company: Meta
event: Stock crashes 19% on earnings
title: Over $119bn wiped off Facebook's market cap after growth shock
text:
More than $119bn (£90.8bn) has been wiped off Facebook’s market value, which includes a $17bn hit to the fortune of its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, after the company told investors that user growth had slowed in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal.

Facebook’s shares plunged 19% on Thursday in New York, a day after the Silicon Valley company revealed that 3 million users in Europe had abandoned the social network since the Observer revealed the Cambridge Analytica breach of 87m Facebook profiles and the introduction of strict European Union data protection legislation.

The collapse of Facebook’s share price is the biggest ever one-day drop in a company’s market value. Shares fell to $176, valuing the company at $510bn, a drop of $119bn from a record high of nearly $630bn on Wednesday.

The previous biggest collapse came in 2000, when Intel lost $91bn in a day. The amount of money wiped off Facebook’s market value on Thursday is equivalent to nearly the whole of McDonald’s.

The single biggest loser is Zuckerberg, who owns nearly 17% of the company and whose paper fortune fell from $86.5bn to about $70bn, sending him tumbling from the third-richest person on the planet to the sixth.

The collapse came after the company told investors to expect a significant decline in growth rate, and revealed that the number of users in Europe had fallen from 282 million to 279 million.

David Wehner, Facebook’s chief financial officer, said on Wednesday that the company’s decision to give its users “more choices around data privacy” following the Cambridge Analytica scandal “may have an impact on our revenue growth”.

“Our total revenue growth rates will continue to decelerate in the second half of 2018, and we expect our revenue growth rates to decline by high single-digit percentages from prior quarters sequentially in both Q3 and Q4,” he said. “Looking beyond 2018, we anticipate that total expense growth will exceed revenue growth in 2019.”

He told investors to expect a big jump in costs related to its efforts to improve data handling and an advertising drive to reassure users.

Costs in the latest quarter rose by 50% to $7.4bn as the company spent vast sums on improving data security and increased policing of the site after Zuckerberg admitted to Congress that Facebook had been too slow to react to Russian meddling in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election.

“We were too slow to spot and respond to Russian interference, and we’re working hard to get better,” Zuckerberg said in testimony to the House energy and commerce committee in April. “Our sophistication in handling these threats is growing and improving quickly.”

Zuckerberg was hauled before Congress to answer questions about the data breach scandal, in which information from 87m user profiles, the majority based in the US, was harvested for use by Cambridge Analytica in targeted political advertising. Facebook has also been under investigation by the FBI, the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Zuckerberg said his company aimed to hire 20,000 people by the end of the year to boost its security and help review suspect content on the site. It has been hiring extra bodies at a vast rate, with its headcount increasing by 47% since last year to more than 30,000 people.

“Looking ahead, we will continue to invest heavily in security and privacy because we have a responsibility to keep people safe,” he said.

Zuckerberg refused to appear before MPs in the UK despite the threat of a formal summons in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica data breach. The information commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, fined Facebook a maximum £500,000 earlier this month for data law breaches.

“Facebook has failed to provide the kind of protections they are required to under the Data Protection Act,” she said. “Fines and prosecutions punish the bad actors, but my real goal is to effect change and restore trust and confidence in our democratic system.”

Facebook’s revenues are such that it would take only five and a half minutes for it to earn enough to pay the fine.

Colin Sebastian, an analyst at US investment bank Baird, said Facebook’s shares had fallen after the company “dropped two bombshells” on a conference call with analysts following the release of its results on Wednesday.

“A significant slowdown in revenue growth for the third and fourth quarters, followed by operating margin declines over the next three-plus years,” Sebastian said. “Importantly, these are ‘self-inflicted’ issues to a large degree, as Facebook sacrifices core app monetisation to drive usage/engagement of Stories.”

Brent Thill, an analyst at banking group Jefferies, told Zuckerberg that “many investors are having a hard time reconciling that deceleration” in revenues. “It just seems like the magnitude is beyond anything we’ve seen, especially across a number of the tech [companies] we cover,” he said on the conference call with Facebook’s top executives.

At the start of the call, before the shares started to tank in after-market trading, Zuckerberg had described the results as “a solid quarter” and talked about the company’s “amazing success”.

Some investors have called for Zuckerberg to be removed as the social network’s chairman due to his “mishandling” of the Cambridge Analytica crisis.

Trillium Asset Management, a small activist investor that has previously questioned Zuckerberg’s role as both chairman and chief executive, said allowing Zuckerberg to have so much power had “contributed to Facebook missing, or mishandling, a number of severe controversies, increasing risk exposure and costs to shareholders”.

“A CEO who also serves as chair can exert excessive influence on the board and its agenda, weakening the board’s oversight of management,” Trillium said. “Having an independent chair helps the board carry out its primary duty – to monitor the management of the company on behalf of its shareholders.”

However, the proposal was unlikely to succeed as Zuckerberg holds Class B shares that give him the majority of the voting power in the company’s governance. Last year, 51% of independent investors voted to oust Zuckerberg as chairman.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2018-11-14
company: Meta
event: NY Times scandal report
title: Mark Zuckerberg reportedly ordered all Facebook executives to use Android phones
text:
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg ordered his management team to only use Android phones, according to The New York Times. The decision reportedly occurred after Apple CEO Tim Cook criticized Facebook in an MSNBC interview for being a service that traffics “in your personal life.”

In those comments made back in March, Cook dismissed a question asking him what he would do if he were in Zuckerberg’s shoes dealing with the fallout from the Cambridge Analytica scandal by saying, “I wouldn’t be in this situation.” Cook’s comments “infuriated” Zuckerberg, according to the NYT. In an interview with Recode, Zuck said he found Cook’s comments to be “extremely glib,” and that “I think it’s important that we don’t all get Stockholm syndrome and let the companies that work hard to charge you more convince you that they actually care more about you. Because that sounds ridiculous to me.”

Tim Cook’s comments ‘infuriated’ Zuckerberg

“We’ve long encouraged our employees and executives to use Android because it is the most popular operating system in the world,” said Facebook in response to the New York Times article.

While it’s not clear from the NYT’s reporting that Cook’s aggressive comments directly provoked Zuckerberg into issuing his Android-only order, it’s still a rational decision to make American executives use Android. Android is the dominant operating system in many regions outside of the US, including Africa, South America, Europe, Russia, South Asia, and parts of the Middle East.

It’s also a good business decision. Other tech companies like Snap have strongly encouraged workers to use Android phones.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2019-03-13
company: Meta
event: Major platform outage
title: Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp suffer outages in Americas and Europe
text:
Facebook has been suffering from outages across the world since around 12pm ET (4pm GMT) Wednesday.

All four of the company’s main applications – Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger – were encountering problems, according to Downdetector.com. The outages appeared to be concentrated in the Americas and Europe.

“We’re aware that some people are currently having trouble accessing the Facebook family of apps,” spokesman Tom Parnell said by email. “We’re working to resolve the issue as soon as possible.”

Parnell subsequently added: “We’re focused on working to resolve the issue as soon as possible, but can confirm the issue is not related to a DDoS attack.” A distributed denial of service attack is a type of cyber-attack in which a perpetrator can flood a website or platform with so much virtual traffic that it shuts down.

According to Downdector.com, the outages started in parts of the US, including the east and west coast, parts of Europe and in Australia. Users in New Zealand also reported problems.

Both Facebook’s desktop site and app appeared to be affected. Some users saw a message that said Facebook was down for “required maintenance”.

Facebook did not say what was causing the outages, which were still occurring as of 2.15pm ET, or which regions were affected.

On Wednesday, Google was also hit by outages around the world. Users reported issues with Gmail, Google Drive, Hangouts and Google Maps for several hours.

Naturally, social media users voiced their concerns via Facebook’s rival, Twitter.

=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2019-10-23
company: Meta
event: Congress testimony on Libra
title: 'You're trying to help drug dealers': Zuckerberg faces angry lawmakers at Libra hearing
text:
Mark Zuckerberg faced hostile questioning in the US Congress from politicians of both parties as he sought to reassure them the planned digital currency Libra could be a force for good.

The more than six hours of testimony before the House financial services committee on Wednesday came as the social network faces calls from lawmakers to be broken up. While the event was intended to focus on Libra, House members used Zuckerberg’s rare appearance to grill him on topics including political bias, fact-checking, and the Cambridge Analytica data scandal.

Libra, the digital currency developed by Facebook, was set to roll out in 2020 but has faced pushback from lawmakers, who have questioned how it would be regulated and expressed fears it could used for illicit activity or become vulnerable to privacy abuses. Several financial partners, including Mastercard, Visa, PayPal and eBay, have abandoned the project.

In his opening statement, Zuckerberg said that if the US did not allow the launch of a cryptocurrency, China would beat it to the field.

“China is moving quickly to launch similar ideas in the coming months. If America doesn’t innovate, our financial leadership is not guaranteed,” he said.

Zuckerberg said Facebook would not back any move by the Libra Association, a consortium of 21 members including venture capital firms and not-for-profit groups, to launch the cryptocurrency until it had satisfied all US regulatory concerns. This signaled more caution than the company had agreed to before, but Zuckerberg sidestepped an attempt to pin him down on promising a moratorium on plans for Libra.

The Democratic congressman Brad Sherman of California criticized Zuckerberg’s claims that Libra will help poor and unbanked people around the world enter the financial system.

“The poor and unbanked need pesos, they need dollars that they can buy something at a local store,” he said. “You’ve done no effort to help the unbanked anywhere else and any other time.”

He said an anonymous currency was more likely to help drug dealers and other people seeking to circumvent traditional financial systems more than the poor and unbanked.

“For the richest man in the world to come here and hide behind the poorest people in the world, and say that’s who you’re really trying to help,” he said. “You’re trying to help those for whom the dollar is not a good currency – drug dealers and tax evaders.”
Under fire before the 2020 election

Wednesday’s hearing came in the wake of Facebook’s recent disclosure that it had removed a network of Russian and Iranian accounts targeting US voters on Instagram, which it owns, and lawmakers refused to let Zuckerberg off the hook when it came to voicing concerns ahead of the 2020 presidential election.

The Democratic congresswoman Maxine Waters told the CEO: “It would be beneficial for all if Facebook concentrates on addressing its many existing deficiencies and failures before proceeding any further on the Libra project,” Waters said.

She also quizzed Zuckerberg on a range of issues including Facebook’s lack of corporate diversity, its limited steps to combat misinformation in advertising on its network, and the dangers of that leading to voter suppression.

“All of these problems I’ve outlined, and given the scope and the size and reach [Facebook has], it should be clear: while we have serious concerns about your plans to establish a global digital currency that will challenge the US dollar … we have also opened up a serious discussion about whether Facebook should be broken up,” she said.

In a standout exchange, the congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez grilled Zuckerberg over the Cambridge Analytica scandal, asking him at what point he personally learned about it and at what point other executives became aware.

Zuckerberg claimed that he learned of Cambridge Analytica “around the time [the news] became public … around March of 2018”. Ocasio-Cortez asked if anybody on Zuckerberg’s leadership team knew about the firm prior to a report published by the Guardian on 11 December 2015.

“I believe some folks were tracking it internally,” Zuckerberg said. “I do think I was aware of Cambridge Analytica as an entity earlier, but I don’t know if I was tracking how they were using Facebook specifically.”

It was the Cambridge Analytica scandal that last brought Zuckerberg before Congress in April 2018, amid a global outcry over the political consulting firm’s misuse of Facebook customer data in the US 2016 presidential election and the Brexit referendum.

That scandal damaged Facebook’s image in Washington and has compounded worries among lawmakers that the social media giant cannot be trusted to launch a global digital currency to its 2.4 billion users.

The Democratic lawmaker Rashida Tlaib said she was speaking to Zuckerberg both as a congresswoman and “as the mother raising two Muslim boys during what is a pretty dark time in our world”. She asked why he was letting hate groups use Facebook events pages to organize.

Zuckerberg acknowledged Facebook’s failings.

“I think we could do more and do a better job here,” Zuckerberg said. “We aren’t perfect, and we make a lot of mistakes.”

Not all lines of questioning were confrontational. Roger Williams of Texas and French Hill of Arkansas congratulated Zuckerberg for his efforts to innovate.

“I congratulate you, like so many of my colleagues, on the extraordinary investment and entrepreneurial success of creating Facebook,” Hill said. “I do admire people in our capitalist system here that are disruptors – that find the weakness and try to exploit it with a new product that’s better for consumers.”

Williams ended his questioning with a final statement for Zuckerberg: “I’m really glad you’re a capitalist.”

The Republican representative Barry Loudermilk appeared to compliment the Facebook founder by comparing him to Trump.

“You’re both very successful businessmen, you’re both capitalists, you’re both billionaires, and you’ve done very well,” he said. “But I think really what you share in common is you both challenge the status quo – he calls it draining the swamp, you see it as innovation.”


=== ARTICLE ===
date: 2020-07-29
company: Meta
event: Antitrust hearing with Bezos
title: Facebook and Amazon grilled over history of aggressive competitive practices at antitrust congressional hearing
text:
acebook and Amazon spent much of Wednesday’s congressional antitrust hearing about Big Tech trying to defend accusations that they have participated in aggressive and unfair practices while growing their massive empires.

The five-and-half-hour virtual hearing, hosted by the House Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, gave Congress members the chance to question Apple CEO Tim Cook, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, and Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google’s parent company Alphabet. While Congress members used the opportunity to dig into all four companies, Facebook and Amazon ultimately faced some of the most damning antitrust allegations.

Congress said competitors referred to Amazon as a drug dealer that bullies third-party sellers.  And the subcommittee brought up former statements in which Facebook was referred to as going into “destroy mode” amid its attempts to buy Instagram and was characterized as being on a ”digital land grab” to maintain its market dominance.

While Zuckerberg disagreed with the description of his company and its practices, he did suggest that Facebook regularly works on products that are inspired by his competitors.

“We’ve certainly adapted features that others have led in,” Zuckerberg said.

Apple walked away relatively unscathed. Though Congress did address Google stifling small businesses by “stealing” information, including Yelp reviews, Google mostly fielded questions about issues like its work with the U.S. and Chinese governments and data privacy

The antitrust hearing was the first time the four CEOs of some of the largest global tech companies testified before Congress at the same time—and a first for Bezos. It also occurred as the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice continue their antitrust investigations into the four companies. The tech companies have faced rising global scrutiny from regulators and users who are concerned with the amount of data these companies collect, how they manage that data, and their growing power.

U.S. Rep. Pramila Jayapal, a Democrat representing Washington’s 7th congressional district, addressed how Facebook handled its purchase of Instagram and its attempt to buy SnapChat. She accused the social media giant of cloning competitors’ products amid acquisition negotiations with the company. When Zuckerberg said he could not recall any threats to competitors, Jayapal reminded him he was under oath and that the subcommittee had emails suggesting otherwise.

“I want to respectively disagree with the characterization,” Zuckerberg said in reference to emails about Instagram. “It was clear this [mobile cameras] was a space we were going to compete in.”

Meanwhile, Rep. Mary Scanlon, a Democrat who represents Pennsylvania’s 5th district, addressed Amazon’s “aggressive” plan to win over competitor Diapers.com. She questioned Bezos about why the company temporarily slashed prices, making it impossible for Diapers.com to compete. Then when Amazon completed the purchase, the company drove the price up, Scanlon said.

“I don’t remember that at all,” Bezos said in response. “We match competitive prices.”

Congress members also expressed concern over whether Amazon is accessing third-party seller data in order to build its own product lines to compete with those brands. Amazon has a policy against viewing individual sellers’ data, though it does analyze the data in aggregate.

“I can’t guarantee that policy has never been violated,” Bezos said. “We continue to look into that. We’re not sure we’ve gotten to the bottom of that.”

At one point, Lucy McBath, a Democratic representative from Georgia’s 6th district, played a recording of a top Amazon bookseller who claimed her competing business had been removed from Amazon’s marketplace without reason—and none of her requests for assistance, including those directly to Bezos, were answered.

“We followed all the rules,” the bookseller said in the recording. “There are 14 lives at stake. Please, please, please help us get back on track.”

And while the hearing didn’t point to any specific regulatory action that may follow, it did show that across the aisle, Congress is concerned with the compounding issues related to the tech companies. Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat representing New York, suggested that the concentration of power is dangerous to a Democratic society, and that four tech companies, in particular, deserved a closer look.

But Jim Sensenbrenner, a Republican representing Wisconsin’s 5th district, indicated that Congress needed to focus on enforcement of antitrust laws versus altering them. “Congress does a poor job of picking winners and losers,” he said. “I have reached the conclusion we do not need to change our antitrust laws.”

If Congress doesn’t act following the hearing, President Donald Trump has said he intends to step in. “If Congress doesn’t bring fairness to Big Tech, which they should have done years ago, I will do it myself with Executive Orders,” he tweeted prior to the hearing on Wednesday. “In Washington, it has been ALL TALK and NO ACTION for years, and the people of our Country are sick and tired of it!”

Congress members in both parties have been arguing that Big Tech has largely been unregulated and that new laws need to be put in place to rein them in. Democrats have been mostly concerned with the companies’ power and their access to people’s personal data, while Republicans have been concerned with issues like suppressing conservative views across the tech platforms.

As expected, many Congress members took the opportunity to hammer home issues of personal interest, even if they weren’t related to antitrust concerns. Data privacy, content moderation, and political bias were common topics of discussion. Bezos also took the opportunity say, “social media is a nuanced destruction machine,” and is a harm to democracy.

Meanwhile, the four CEOs tried to show that their products and services help consumers, and that they all face competition from numerous other companies. For example, Bezos referred to Walmart, Target, and Costco as primary competitors to Amazon. And Zuckerberg listed companies including TikTok, Apple, and Google, which provide competing social media and messaging services.

“As I understand our laws, companies aren’t bad just because they are big,” Zuckerberg said in his prepared remarks that were released ahead of the hearing. “Many large companies that fail to compete cease to exist.”

Rep. David Cecilline, chair of the subcommittee and a Democratic congressman representing Rhode Island, ended the hearing with next steps. The subcommittee is expected to publish a report with the findings of their investigation and proposed solutions.

“These companies that exist today have monopoly power,” he said. “Some need to be broken up, all need to be properly regulated.”
